On January 1, 2016, the FBI added cruelty to animals as a category in the Uniform Crime Report, a nationwide crime reporting system commonly used in homicide investigations. While only about a third of U.S. communities currently participate in the system, the data generated will help create a clearer picture of animal abuse and guide strategies for intervention and enforcement. Data collection covers four categories: simple/gross neglect, intentional abuse and torture, organized abuse (such as dogfighting and cockfighting) and animal sexual abuse.
Data on domestic violence and child abuse cases reveal that a staggering number of animals are targeted by those who abuse their children or spouses.

There are approximately 70 million pet dogs and 74.1 million pet cats in the U.S. where 20 men and women are assaulted per minute (an average of around 10 million a year).
In one survey, 71 % of domestic violence victims reported that their abuser also targeted pets.
In one study of families under investigation for suspected child abuse, researchers found that pet abuse had occurred in 88 % of the families under supervision for physical abuse of their children.
To put a stop to this pattern of violence, the Humane Society Legislative Fund supported the Pets and Women’s Safety (PAWS) Act, introduced to Congress in 2015 as H.R. 1258 and S.B. 1559 and enacted as part of the farm bill passed by Congress and signed by President Trump in 2018. Once fully enacted, the PAWS Act helps victims of domestic abuse find the means to escape their abusers while keeping their companion animals safe—many victims remain in abusive households for fear of their pets’ safety.
Animal welfare organizations are concerned with the health, safety and psychological wellness of individual animals. These organizations include animal rescue groups and wildlife rehabilitation centers, which care for animals in distress and sanctuaries, where animals are brought to live and be protected for the rest of their lives. Their goals are generally distinct from conservation organizations, which are primarily concerned with the preservation of species, populations, habitats, ecosystems and biodiversity, rather than the welfare of individual animals.[1][2]

This is a dynamic list and may never be able to satisfy particular standards for completeness.
Worldwide or serving multiple countries
Animal People (based in U.S.)
Animal Transportation Association
Animal Welfare Institute
AnimaNaturalis
Association of Zoos and Aquariums
Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International
Australia for Dolphins
BirdLife International
Brooke Hospital for Animals (equine)
Care for the Wild International
Compassion in World Farming
The Donkey Sanctuary (based in U.K.)
Friends of Animals
Four Paws
Global Alliance for Rabies Control
Grey2K USA
Humane Slaughter Association (based in UK)
Humane Society International
International Animal Rescue
International Bird Rescue (based in California)
International Fund for Animal Welfare (IFAW)
International Primate Protection League
Marine Connection